README.md, before:

![nix](https://socialify.git.ci/Ladas552/Flake-Ocean/image?font=Rokkitt&language=1&logo=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FNixOS%2Fnixos-artwork%2Frefs%2Fheads%2Fmaster%2Flogo%2Fnix-snowflake-rainbow.svg&name=1&owner=1&pattern=Transparent&stargazers=1&theme=Dark)

# What is this?
This is my multi host, modular Nix config. It declares configs for different programs using Nix language, such as:
- Neovim module to use [Rocks.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-neorocks/rocks.nvim) on NixOS with [my lua config](https://github.com/Ladas552/nvim-rocks-config)
- [Niri](https://github.com/YaLTeR/niri) - Scrollable Tilling Wayland Compositor via Community [Niri-flake](https://github.com/sodiboo/niri-flake)
- And many more with [Home-manager](https://github.com/nix-community/home-manager), that allows to declare configuration of user programs in Nix language
- Slowly adopting [Hjem](https://github.com/feel-co/hjem) with set of modules of [Hjem-rum](https://github.com/snugnug/hjem-rum)

I also declare configuration as packages that you can try with `nix run
github:Ladas552/Flake-Ocean#app`, replace `app` with:

- [nvf](https://github.com/NotAShelf/nvf) - Nix declared Neovim
- [nixvim](https://github.com/nix-community/nixvim) - another Nix declared Neovim
- rofi-powermenu - power menu made of Rofi with a [nice theme](https://github.com/adi1090x/rofi)
- all the other scripts in [pkgs directory](./pkgs/default.nix)

# Overview of things to note

## Hosts

- 2 NixOS hosts with Nvidia and Intel, and AMD APU on laptops. Both on ZFS and NixPort is using [Impermanence](https://github.com/nix-community/impermanence)
- [Nix-On-Droid](https://github.com/nix-community/nix-on-droid) on phone, even if unmantained, it still works
- [NixOS-WSL](https://github.com/nix-community/NixOS-WSL) for Windows partition
- NixVM for testing, you shouldn't use it unless testing breaking changes
- NixIso for my portable NixOS image
## Modular
I adopted [Dendritic layout](https://github.com/mightyiam/dendritic) for my config. 
Making all files their own modules that I can import, and if module isn't imported, it doesn't exist. This way most of my config is fairy atomic and you can pop in and out modules as you wish.

Also I made `custom.meta` options on every host, and depending on host, different variables are used. Options defined in `modules/flake-parts/options`. And host variables are defined at `imports.nix` of every host.

I am still working on adding modularity to pkgs, probably make them all flake modules too
## Docs
I write comments on things, that might explain certain ways of doing things, or leave not working options in comments for people to find. This is to not look up one thing twice, and just look at the nix file itself.

Also, I have [Norg document](./nix.norg), containing notes and TODO for the config, and folder `/docs` for containing more specific instructions.

I also plan on writing some [blog posts about Nix](https://ladas552.me/categories/nix/), so stay tuned!

## Name

Yes, it is a [JoJo's reference](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7c467d52-a430-4bb3-9493-a5ffa0d69dd4)

# Credits
I take a lot of things from the internet and different configs too. So I credit people in comments to snippets that I stole.

If you want to check every person that I stole things from, go to my [List of configs](https://github.com/stars/Ladas552/lists/nix-flakes)

Also for that [one guy](https://codeberg.org/Dich0tomy/snowstorm) who switched to codeberg

Also [this post from drupol](https://not-a-number.io/2025/refactoring-my-infrastructure-as-code-configurations/) was huge help in migrating my config to dendritic

Also, thanks to everyone in nix-community for being so awesome, wouldn't be there without ya

Commit message:

steal @Michael-C-Buckley aka Jet's helium wrapper with nvfetcher

README.md, after:

![nix](https://socialify.git.ci/Ladas552/Flake-Ocean/image?font=Rokkitt&language=1&logo=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FNixOS%2Fnixos-artwork%2Frefs%2Fheads%2Fmaster%2Flogo%2Fnix-snowflake-rainbow.svg&name=1&owner=1&pattern=Transparent&stargazers=1&theme=Dark)

# What is this?
This is my multi host, modular Nix config. It declares configs for different programs using Nix language, such as:
- Neovim module to use [Rocks.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-neorocks/rocks.nvim) on NixOS with [my lua config](https://github.com/Ladas552/nvim-rocks-config)
- [Niri](https://github.com/YaLTeR/niri) - Scrollable Tilling Wayland Compositor via Community [Niri-flake](https://github.com/sodiboo/niri-flake)
- And many more with [Home-manager](https://github.com/nix-community/home-manager), that allows to declare configuration of user programs in Nix language
- Slowly adopting [Hjem](https://github.com/feel-co/hjem) with set of modules of [Hjem-rum](https://github.com/snugnug/hjem-rum)

I also declare configuration as packages that you can try with `nix run
github:Ladas552/Flake-Ocean#app`, replace `app` with:

- [nvf](https://github.com/NotAShelf/nvf) - Nix declared Neovim
- [nixvim](https://github.com/nix-community/nixvim) - another Nix declared Neovim
- rofi-powermenu - power menu made of Rofi with a [nice theme](https://github.com/adi1090x/rofi)
- all the other scripts in [pkgs directory](./pkgs/default.nix)

# Overview of things to note

## Hosts

- 2 NixOS hosts with Nvidia and Intel, and AMD APU on laptops. Both on ZFS and NixPort is using [Impermanence](https://github.com/nix-community/impermanence)
- [Nix-On-Droid](https://github.com/nix-community/nix-on-droid) on phone, even if unmantained, it still works
- [NixOS-WSL](https://github.com/nix-community/NixOS-WSL) for Windows partition
- NixVM for testing, you shouldn't use it unless testing breaking changes
- NixIso for my portable NixOS image
## Modular
I adopted [Dendritic layout](https://github.com/mightyiam/dendritic) for my config. 
Making all files their own modules that I can import, and if module isn't imported, it doesn't exist. This way most of my config is fairy atomic and you can pop in and out modules as you wish.

Also I made `custom.meta` options on every host, and depending on host, different variables are used. Options defined in `modules/flake-parts/options`. And host variables are defined at `imports.nix` of every host.

I am still working on adding modularity to pkgs, probably make them all flake modules too
## Docs
I write comments on things, that might explain certain ways of doing things, or leave not working options in comments for people to find. This is to not look up one thing twice, and just look at the nix file itself.

Also, I have [Norg document](./nix.norg), containing notes and TODO for the config, and folder `/docs` for containing more specific instructions.

I also plan on writing some [blog posts about Nix](https://ladas552.me/Flake-Ocean/), so stay tuned!

## Nvfetcher

I also have inputs in `./_sources/`, they are generated with `nvfetcher` after editing the `./nvfetcher.toml` file. Instead of `nix flake update`, I update them with `nix run github:berberman/nvfetcher`.

## Name

Yes, it is a [JoJo's reference](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7c467d52-a430-4bb3-9493-a5ffa0d69dd4)

# Credits
I take a lot of things from the internet and different configs too. So I credit people in comments to snippets that I stole.

If you want to check every person that I stole things from, go to my [List of configs](https://github.com/stars/Ladas552/lists/nix-flakes)

Also for that [one guy](https://codeberg.org/Dich0tomy/snowstorm) who switched to codeberg

Also [this post from drupol](https://not-a-number.io/2025/refactoring-my-infrastructure-as-code-configurations/) was huge help in migrating my config to dendritic

Also, thanks to everyone in nix-community for being so awesome, wouldn't be there without ya
