@document.meta
title: WHAT-BRANCH
description: What this PR will be about
authors: ladas552
categories: [
  nix
]
created: 2026-03-08T12:33:21
updated: 2026-03-08T18:25:52
version: 1.1.1
@end

* What I want
 - Remove flake-parts dependency
** Additonal ideas to implement
   - Go flake inputless. 
     Get everything from nvfetcher. Yes, even nixpkgs. I don't have a reason to, other than that I hate how flake inputs work. not having a good way to import modules. Also need to find a way to make a nvf config. 
   - Switch to Adios
     For the fun of it. I think I can use adios with Flakes. Need to check. There is no practical reason, other than it will be fun and Uniq.
* How
** My current setup
   ~ Utilises generic module class to set options for every flake parts module, including the wrappers.
   ~ nixosConfiguration function to combine all the modules into a host
   ~ If I don't import a module into host, it doesn't exist. As in doesn't apply changes
   
** How Can I reapply this setup on non Flake-Parts config
   ~ Generic modules, are just normal modules because normal modules don't type check. So theoretically I can import the normal option modules under any scope.
   ~ I can just use the default flake outputs with a let in
   ~ I think options will work just fine. But I need to take out all the boilerplate from it. make it as simple as `mkIfModule` at the top of the config or something.

** Materials
*** Classes without flake-parts
    from @boomshroom on nixos unofficial discord, this way whichever module loads the config will determine under what class it will load.
    @code nix
{ _class, ...}:
{
  nixos = { /* nixos config */ };
  homeManager = { /* home-manager config */ };
  nixOnDroid = { /* droid config */ };
  darwin = { /* macos config */ };
  nixbsd = { /* bsd config */ };
}.${_class}
    @end

*** Configs to steal
    - {https://github.com/llakala/nixos}[llakala] - adios, wrappers, uses base values and specialArgs
    - {https://github.com/hercules-ci/flake-parts/blob/main/extras/modules.nix}[Flake-parts] - This file in particular defines modules and classes in `flake.modules`. So theoretically I can just adopt this into my config without fucking with flake-parts
